# Chess-Pairing
In this class project, my teammates and I took pairings data from a Swiss Chess tournament to create a Linear Optimization program that updates the matchings for round 8. 

The International Chess Federation - widely known as FIDE- is the governing body for the sport of chess. All highly regarded international chess competitions abide by the standards and practices set  by this organization. Some of the most important standards revolve around the pairing process used to match players together for each round of a tournament. The Swiss System of pair matching is one of the most widely adopted FIDE standards for matching players in an International chess competition. Unlike other matching methods, such as those used in round-robin style tournaments,  Swiss systems use fewer rounds, pair opponents with similar scores, and allow all competitors to play the same number of rounds, regardless of score. 

In this project, a group of my classmates and I set out to define an Integer Program that will provide an optimized solution for the pairing of chess players in a Swiss System tournament. For our model solutions to be valid, they must abide by the rules set forth by FIDE to qualify as a Swiss-System. To create the most optimal pairings for an upcoming round, our model uses previous pairings, player scores, and  other data from previous rounds. In addition to determining player pairings, our model uses previous rounds’ data to assign colors to each of the competitors within a pairing. 
